hey everybody this is Robert plank and
today we're going to take a look at how
to set up your own password-protected
membership site in WordPress using only
free tools so the first thing you need
to do is set up a wordpress blog and if
you haven't done that yet just go to
whatever your site is /c panel that CPAN
al and it should take you to a screen
that looks like this there are a lot of
different icons you could possibly click
on but will undo a scroll down through
the software area and find this smiley
face called Fantastico deluxe click on
that oh this will do is allow you to set
up WordPress which is a blogging tool in
just a few seconds so click on a
Fantastico click on a WordPress and then
click new installation so just to recap
go to your website slash C panel click
on Fantastico
click WordPress then click new
installation if you want to follow along
here that's great so we have the
directory we're going to install this on
just for this one roar plank comm Forge
slash members I always put my membership
sites as slash members then I need to
think of a username and password for
your administrator to log in so I'm just
going to call it Robert pastor Robert
one two three
Robert plank and that's all that people
need to know okay we just click on
install WordPress and then now WordPress
is setup for us at or will be set up at
Robert Frank com4 / members click finish
installation and give it a second and
there we go now we have the blog setup
at Robert plank com4 / members of I can
just log in using the same password I
just set up and here we go now we have
this membership site and it's set up
using the default WordPress theme which
is cool we have a sample blog post but
now we have a wordpress site and we need
to put a password in front of it to make
it a membership site so to do this we're
going to go to WWE
member genius.com meam de r g en i us
comm membranous comm this is a free
plugin we're going to go and put in our
details first name last name and email
address and now we're in we're giving a
password again to come back here and a
video in case you want to see the
detailed instructions but here we go
member genius wordpress plugin there's
just like all you have to do is save
this is it file to your computer then
we'll go back to our blog and install
this so i'm going to just take this
right click Save Link As and I'll just
save this on my desktop so I can get
back to it click Save so now that that
plug-in has been saved to my desktop and
if we go here here you go here it is in
my desktop I'm going to go back to my
wordpress blog to my dashboard and I
will say plugins add new so here we go
plugins add new and then Google upload
so plugins add new upload and then just
browse for this member genius is it file
so install now it allows you to type in
your details to log in which is cool
proceed and there we go plug-in activate
it successfully activate plug-in and
what happens here is we go to settings
and you just specify a username and
password so I'll just call this username
secret password secret and here's what
happens when I go back to my blog here
and refresh it now says this is behind a
protected area and I can't look at
anything can't do anything I just have
to go secret and then secret continue
and there you go now I have access to
the content so this is a really great
way if you want to give your subscribers
specific content if you want to drip out
bonuses for your buyers if you want to
just have a secret meeting area
you can do that so the steps that we
went through our first of all go to
fantastico and install WordPress we go
to cPanel Fantastico WordPress new set
up a new WordPress site then go to
member genius.com sign up and then get
this plug-in so as soon as you get this
plug-in save the zip file then go to
your blog we're going to go to plugins
add new upload the zip file or the
plugins add new upload and upload that
go to settings set your password and now
you have a fully functional membership
site using just WordPress which is free
and member genius which is also free so
to set those up like I said go to
Fantastico and then to get your member
genius plug and go to memj5 it's member
genius calm and I look forward to seeing
where your membership site is now setup
in just a few minutes using free tools